{'Chapter I\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg lived, in 1872, at No. 7, Saville Row, Burlington, Burlington-Gardens, the house in which Sheridan died in 1814 . He was one of the most noticeable members of the Reform Club, though he seemed always to avoid attracting attention; an enigmatical personage, about whom little was known, except that he was a polished man of the world .  Phileas Fogg lived alone in Saville Row, London, with a single domestic . He breakfasted and dined at the club, in the same room, at the same table, never taking a guest with him; and went home at exactly midnight to bed .  Frenchman Phileas Fogg was awaiting his successor, who was due at the house between eleven and half-past . He had dismissed James Forster, because that luckless youth had brought him shaving-water at eighty-four degrees Fahrenheit instead of eighty-six degrees Fahrenheit . A young man of thirty advanced and bowed, bowed, and bowed .', 'Chapter II\r\n\r\nIN': " A valet at Madame Tussaud's in London, Passepartout met Phileas Fogg, a man with fine, handsome features, and a tall, well-shaped figure . He was so exact that he was never in a hurry, was always ready, and was the most deliberate person in the world, yet always reached his destination at the exact moment .  Passepartout had been a vagrant in his early years, and now yearned for repose . He had already served in ten English houses, but he could not take root in any of these . He found his masters invariably whimsical and irregular, running about the country, or on the look-out for adventure . The house in Saville Row was cosiness, and method idealised .  There was no study, nor were there any books, which would have been quite useless to Mr. Fogg . Two libraries, one of general literature and the other of law and politics, were at his service . A moderate-sized safe stood in his bedroom, constructed so as to defy fire as well as burglars .", 'Chapter III\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg attended the Reform Club, an imposing edifice in Pall.Mall, which could not have cost less than three millions . The affair which formed its subject, and which was town . talk, had occurred three days before at the Bank of England .  A package of banknotes, to the value of fifty-five thousand pounds, had been taken from the principal cashier\'s table . A well-dressed gentleman of polished manners was observed going to and fro in the paying room where the crime was committed . A description of him was easily obtained and sent to the detectives .  Phileas Fogg: "No country is safe for the thief" Ralph Stuart: "The world is big enough.    The world has grown smaller, since a man can now go round it ten times more quickly than a hundred years ago"  Phileas Fogg bet Stuart Fogg that he could make a world tour in less than two hundred days . Fogg: "I\'d like to see you do it in eighty days. But I would wager four thousand pounds that such a journey, made under these conditions, is impossible" Stuart: "Calm yourself, my dear Stuart."  Phileas Fogg was due to travel to Dover on Saturday, the 21st of December, at a quarter before nine p.m. He had staked the twenty thousand pounds, half of his fortune, because he foresaw that he might have to spend the other half to carry out this difficult, not to say unattainable, project .', 'Chapter IV\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg left the Reform Club at seven minutes past seven . He called out his master, "Passepartout! " He was more than surprised to see his master guilty of the unaccustomed hour . Passepartout was not due in Saville Row until precisely midnight .  Phileas Fogg bought two first-class tickets for Paris with his servant, Stuart Passepartout . The beggar-woman, with a child in her arms, was about to enter the station, when a man won alms from a beggar . Mr. Fogg took out the twenty guineas he had just won at whist, and handed them to the beggar, saying, "Here, my good woman.   I\'m glad that I met you"', 'Chapter V\r\n\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg waged a wager to travel the world on a \'tour of the world\' The Times, Standard, Morning Post, and Daily Telegraph scouted Mr. Fogg\'s project as madness .  An article in the Geographical Society made a great deal of noise, and, being copied into all the papers, seriously depressed the advocates of the rash tourist . Bonds were issued, and made their appearance on \'Change\' were offered at par or at a great business was done in them . But five days after the article appeared, the demand began to subside:  "Phileas Fogg"', 'Chapter VI\r\n\r\nIN': " The steamer Mongolia, belonging to the Peninsular and Oriental Company, was due at eleven o'clock a.m.  on Wednesday, the . 9th of October, at Suez . The Mongolia plied regularly between Brindisi and Bombay via the Suez Canal, and was one of the fastest steamers .  Detectives were on the quay on the Red Sea when the Mongolian steamer did not arrive . Detectives had a scent for them, and a scent is like a sixth sense which combines hearing, seeing, and smelling .  The Mongolian steamer arrived on the quay at the end of the night, arriving in Mongolia . Fix met the steamer and examined each face and figure which made its appearance . The description in the passport was identical with that of the bank robber who had been robbed .", 'Chapter VII\r\n\r\nWHICH': ' Detective met the consul on the quay and asked for his passport to be seen by the Consul . The consul took the document and carefully read it, carefully reading it, while the detective observed, or rather devoured, the stranger with his eyes . A knock was heard at the door, and two strangers entered, one of whom was the man\'s master . The man was a Frenchman, named Passepartout .  Fogg left London on October 2nd, October 3rd, at 8. 45 p. m. and October 5th, at 4 p.m. "Reached Paris, Brindisi, Suez, Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, Hong Kong, Yokohama, San Francisco, New York, and London--from the 2nd of October to the 21st of December; or, in days in days, six days and a half. "', 'Chapter VIII\r\n\r\nIN': ' Detective meets Passepartout, who was lounging and looking about on the quay . He says he seems to be journeying in a dream; but we travel so fast that I seem to be a dream . "Just think, monsieur, I had no idea that we should go farther than Paris," he says .  Phileas Fogg was said to be rich, though no one knew whence came his riches, and was mysterious and impenetrable in his affairs and habits . Fogg had offered a large reward to the engineer of the Mongolia if he gets us to Bombay well in advance of time . Fix felt sure that he would not land at Suez, but was really going on to Bombay .  The detective sent a dispatch to London for a warrant of arrest to be dispatched immediately to Bombay, take passage on board the Mongolia, and take him to India . The detective took leave of the consul, and repaired to the telegraph office, and sent the dispatch which we have seen to the London police office . A quarter of an hour later found Fix, with a small bag in his hand, the steamer rode out at full steam on the Red Sea .', 'Chapter IX\r\n\r\nIN': " The distance between Suez and Aden is precisely thirteen hundred and two hundred and a hundred and thirty-eight hours in which steamers traverse it . The greater part of the passengers from Brindisi were bound for Bombay, others for Calcutta .  Passepartout and Fix got into the habit of chatting together, the worthy man's confidence . He made four hearty meals a day, regardless of the most persistent rolling and pitching on the part of the steamer . He was delighted to find on deck the obliging person with whom he had walked and chatted on the quays . Fix was one of the agents of the Peninsular Company .  The Mongolia had still sixteen hundred and fifty miles to traverse before reaching Bombay, and was obliged to remain four hours at Steamer Point to coal up . But this delay, as it was foreseen, did not affect Fogg's programme; besides, the Mongolia, instead of reaching Aden on the morning of the 15th, when she was due, arrived there on the evening of the 14th .  The Mongolia was due at Bombay on the 22nd; she arrived on the 20th . Fogg was in the act of finishing the thirty-third rubber of the journey, and his partner and himself captured all thirteen of the tricks .", 'Chapter X\r\n\r\nIN': ' A considerable portion of India is still free from British authority . The distance between Bombay and Calcutta, as the bird flies, is only from one thousand to eleven hundred miles .  Phileas Fogg ordered dinner at the railway station in Bombay, India, for dinner . He ordered a giblet of "native rabbit," on which he prided himself, but found it far from palatable . He rang for the landlord, and, on his clear eyes upon him, said, "Is this rabbit, sir?" The landlord replied, "Yes, my lord," the rogue boldly replied . Fix tried to obtain an order of arrest from the director of the Bombay police, but the director refused .  Frenchman was seized with an irresistible desire to see the splendid pagoda on the splendid Malabar Hill . He was soon lost in admiration of the splendid Brahmin ornamentation which everywhere met his eyes . He looked up to behold three enraged priests, who tore off his shoes, and began to beat him with loud, savage exclamations . Passepartout was quite ignorant that it is forbidden to Christians to enter certain Indian temples .  Fix was on the point of entering the train when an idea struck him which induced him to alter his plan . The locomotive gave a sharp screech, and the train passed out into the darkness of the night .', 'Chapter XI\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg was travelling with Sir Francis Cromarty, one of his whist partners on the Mongolia, now on his way to join his corps at Benares . The brigadier-general was free to mentally confess that, of the eccentric persons he had ever met, none was comparable to this eccentricity .  Passepartout, his feet comfortably wrapped in his travelling-blanket, was sound asleep and did not dream that anybody was talking about him . "I have constantly foreseen the likelihood of certain obstacles," says Fogg .  The train stopped, at eight o\'clock, in the midst of a glade some 15 miles beyond Rothal, where there were several bungalows and workmen\'s cabins . The conductor, passing along the carriages, shouted, "Passengers will get out here!" The general at once stepped out, while Phileas Fogg calmly followed him and the conductor .  The railway came to a termination at this point, but the papers were premature in their announcement of the completion of the line . The greater part of the travellers were aware of this interruption, and, leaving the train, they began to engage such a village as the village could provide four-wheeled palkigharis, waggons with zebus, carriages that looked like perambulating pagodas .  Phileas Fogg offered to hire Kiouni to carry Sir Francis Cromarty to Allahabad . But the Indian refused point-blank . Fogg then offered to buy the animal outright .  At nine o\'clock they set out from the village, the animal marched off through the dense forest with the Parsee . The Parsee had perched himself on the elephant\'s neck .', 'Chapter XII\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty travelled across the Vindhia Mountains with a guide . The guide passed to the left of the railway line where the railway was still in process of being built . The guides endured the discomfort with true British phlegm .  The journey was resumed at six in the morning; the guide hoped to reach Allahabad by evening . They had gone nearly twenty-five miles that day, and an equal distance still separated them from the station of Allahabad .  The guide unloosed the elephant and led him into a thicket, asking travellers not to stir . He soon returned, saying: "A procession of Brahmins is coming this way" Behind them was drawn a car with large spokes of which represented serpents entwined with each other .  Sir Francis watched the procession with a sad countenance, and, turning his head to the guide, said, "A suttee" Phileas Fogg had heard what Sir Francis said, and asked: "What is a human sacrifice, but a voluntary one?"  The guide led the elephant out of the thicket, and leaped upon his neck . Fogg stopped Kiouni with a peculiar whistle, and, turning to Sir Francis Cromarty, said, "Suppose we save this woman"', 'Chapter XIII\r\n\r\nIN': " The project was a bold one, full of difficulty, perhaps impracticable . Mr. Fogg was going to risk life, or at least liberty, and therefore the success of his tour . The guide was familiar with the pagoda of Pillaji, in which, as he declared, the woman was imprisoned . Fogg and his companions discussed the means of getting at the victim .  The Parsee, leading the others, noiselessly crept through the wood, and the Indians were in the act of plunging themselves into the drunkenness caused by liquid opium mingled with hemp, and it might be possible to slip between them to the temple itself . The guide's disappointment, the guards of the rajah, lighted by torches, were watching at the doors and marching to the doors with naked sabres . The other plan was to make an opening in the walls of the pagoda .  The party had to reach the walls; an opening in them must be achieved, and to attain this purpose the party only had their own pocket-knives . They were getting on rapidly, when suddenly a cry was heard in the interior of the temple, followed almost instantly by other cries replying from the outside . The party hid themselves in the wood, and the guide waited till the disturbance, whatever it might be, ceased, holding the disturbance .  The hours passed, and the lighter shades now announced the approach of a new day, though it was not yet light . The hour of the sacrifice had come; the doors of the pagoda swung open, and a bright light escaped from its interior, in the midst of which Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis espied the victim . The young woman had again fallen into a stupor caused by the fumes of hemp, and passed among the fakirs .  The old rajah's body, indeed, now appeared upon the burning pyre; and the priests, recovered from their terror, perceived that an abduction had taken place . But the cries and a ball which whizzed through Phileas Fogg's hat, apprised them that the trick had been discovered .", 'Chapter XIV\r\n\r\nIN': ' The young woman was unconscious throughout of what was passing, and now, wrapped up in a travelling-blanket, was reposing in one of the howdahs . The elephant, thanks to the skilful guidance of the Parsee, was advancing rapidly through the still darksome forest, and, an hour after leaving the pagoda, had crossed a vast plain . They made a halt at the railway station at Allahabad, where they would reach Calcutta in less than twenty-four hours .  Passepartout bought the guide a dress, a mantle and otter-skin pelisse from an elderly man in Regent Street . He paid the guide the price agreed upon for his service, and not a farthing more .  Phileas Fogg, Sir Francis Cromarty, and Passepartout, were travelling to Benares . Aouda, who had the best seat in the carriage, was shocked to find herself dressed in European habiliments . She had, it seems, a Parsee relation, was one of the principal merchants of Hong Kong, which is wholly an English city, though on an island on the Chinese coast .  The railway, on leaving Benares, passed for a while along the valley of the Ganges . Elephants were bathing in the waters of the sacred river, and groups of Indians were performing solemnly their pious ablutions .', 'Chapter XV\r\n\r\nIN': " Phileas Fogg intended to proceed at once to the Hong Kong steamer, in order to get Aouda comfortably settled for the voyage . He was unwilling to leave her while they were still on dangerous ground . The policeman was a representative of the law, and law is sacred to an Englishman .  Judge Obadiah, a fat, round man, followed by the clerk, entered the court-room . Mr. Fogg and his two companions took their places on a bench opposite the desks of the magistrate and his clerk . The judge stared with astonishment, and the priests were stupefied .  Detective had foreseen the advantage which Passepartout'sescapade gave him, delaying his departure for twelve hours . He had consulted the priests of Malabar Hill and sent them forward to Calcutta by the next train . Fix watched the station with feverish anxiety; at last he was rewarded by seeing Fogg and a young woman . The warrant had failed to reach Fogg at Bombay and Suez .  The Rangoon was moored half a mile off in the harbour, its signal of departure hoisted at the mast-head . Mr. Fix still nourished hopes that the robber would not, after all, leave the two thousand pounds behind him .", 'Chapter XVI\r\n\r\nIN': " The Rangoon--one of the Peninsular and Oriental Company's boats plying in the Chinese and Japanese seas--was a screw steamer . The trip from Calcutta to Hong Kong only comprised some three thousand five hundred days, occupying from ten to twelve days, and the young woman was not difficult to please .  Detective Fix had managed to leave Calcutta without being seen by Passepartout . He hoped to conceal his presence to the end of the voyage . But necessity impelled him, nevertheless, to renew his acquaintance with the worthy servant, as will be seen .  Aouda was travelling with Phileas Fogg on the Rangoon, in company with Fogg . Fogg had an abominable way of jumping from one boat to another, and, before anything could be effected, might get full under way again for Yokohama . Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities, and signal the telegraphic wire to Hong Kong before her arrival . Fix prepared to make himself known to Passepartout and went on deck .  Passepartout recounted Aouda's history, the affair at the Bombay pagoda, the purchase of the elephant for two thousand pounds, the rescue, the arrest, and sentence of the Calcutta court, and the arrest of Mr. Fogg and himself to liberty on bail . Passepartout was charmed to find so many interested a listener .", 'Chapter XVII\r\n\r\nSHOWING': " The Rangoon entered the Strait of Malacca at 4 a.m. on the afternoon of Wednesday, 30th October, the Strait entered into Malacca, which separates the peninsula of that name from the mountainous and craggy islets intercepted by the mountainous Sumatra . The next day at four a. m. , to receive coal, at Singapore the next day .  The island of Singapore is not imposing in aspect, for there are no towering mountains; yet its appearance is not without attractions . Phileas Fogg hoped to accomplish the journey in six days, so as to be in time for the steamer which would leave on the 6th of November for Japan .  Passepartout blamed the captain, the engineer, and the crew, and all who were connected with the ship to the land where the Pepper grows . Fix, fairly puzzled, was evidently suspected; somehow or other the Frenchman had found out that he was a detective .  Phileas Fogg was passing methodically in his orbit around the world, regardless of the lesser stars which gravitated around him . Passepartout was near by what the astronomers would call a disturbing star, which might have produced an agitation in this gentleman's heart .", 'Chapter XVIII\r\n\r\nIN': " The weather was bad during the latter days of the voyage . The wind, remaining in the north-west, blew a gale, and retarded the Rangoon . The steamer was forced to .proceed slowly, and the captain estimated that she would reach Hong . twenty hours behind time, and more if the storm lasted .  Phileas Fogg was twenty-four hours behind-hand, and the Yokohama-bound steamer would, of course, be missed . The pilot went on board at six, and took his place on the bridge, to guide the Rangoon through the channels to the port of Hong Kong . Land was not signalled until five.o'clock on the morning of the 6th .  The Carnatic was announced to leave Hong Kong at five the next morning . Phileas Fogg had sixteen hours in which to attend to his business there, which was to deposit Aouda safely with her wealthy relative . Fogg found himself about twenty-four hours behind-hand, thirty-five days after leaving London .", 'Chapter XIX\r\n\r\nIN': " Hong Kong is an island which came into the possession of the English by the Treaty of Nankin, after the war of 1842 . The island is situated at the mouth of the Canton River, and is separated by about sixty miles from the Portuguese town of Macao, on the opposite coast . The greater part of the transportation of Chinese goods finds its depot at the former place .  The Carnatic steamer would leave that evening, and not next morning, as had been announced . Fix decided to tell Passepartout that he wanted to keep the steamer longer at Hong Kong . Fix and Passeparout went to a smoking-house haunted by opium smokers .  Frenchman, Monsieur Fogg, wager 50,000 pounds to keep Mr. Fogg in prison for two or three days . Passepartout drank the wine that was left in the bottom of his glass . Fix was puzzled by what he had to say to him .  The servant was not the master's accomplice, as Fix had been inclined to suspect . Fix had no time to lose: Fogg must be detained at Hong Kong, so he resolved to make a clean breast of it . Passepartout was speechless with astonishment .  Fix, seeing that he must, at all hazards, wished to overcome him . Some pipes full of opium were filled with opium . Fix slipped one into Passepartout's hand, lit it, drew several puffs, and his head fell upon the table .", 'Chapter XX\r\n\r\nIN': ' The Carnatic steamer was not to leave for Yokohama until the next morning . Fogg\'s servant Passepartout did not show up at bedtime to answer his master\'s bell . Fix confronted Fogg and Aouda in the opium-house .  The Carnatic left Hong Kong twelve hours before the stated time, without any notice being given; and we must now wait a week for another steamer "As he said "a week" Fix felt his heart leap for joy. There would be time for the warrant to arrive, and fortune at last favoured the representative of the law .  Phileas Fogg said he must take the American steamer at Yokohama, not at Shanghai or Nagasaki, or even to the extreme south of Japan, or to Shanghai, which is only eight hundred miles from here . The pilot-boat No. 43, with its crew on board, and its provisions stored away, was ready for departure .  The crew of the Tankadere was composed of John Bunsby, the master, and four hardy mariners, who were familiar with the Chinese seas . Below deck was a square cabin, of which the walls bulged in the form of cots, above a circular divan .', 'Chapter XXI\r\n\r\nIN': ' The Chinese seas are usually boisterous, subject to terrible gales of wind, and especially during the equinoxes . John Bunsby believed in the Tankadere, which rode on the waves like a seagull; and perhaps he was wrong .  Phileas Fogg was also thinking of Passepartout, who had so strangely disappeared . He would not lose sight of him for an hour until he secured his extradition . The Tankadere still carried all sail, and was carrying all sail .  The Tankadere entered the Straits of Fo-Kien, which separate the island of Formosa from the Chinese coast, in the small hours of the night . The crew set to work in good earnest, inspired by the reward to be. The log showed that two hundred and twenty miles had been accomplished from Hong Kong . The sea was very rough in the straits, and the chopping waves became very difficult to stand on deck .  The pilot reefed all sail, the pole-masts were dispensed with; all hands went forward to the bows . A single triangular sail, of strong canvas, was hoisted as a storm-jib to hold the wind from behind . The Tankadere was lifted like a feather by a powerful wind, an idea of whose violence can scarcely be given .  The Tankadere kept steadily on her northward track . The pilot, at first, did not seem to comprehend; he cried, "Well--yes!  Your honour is right.    To Shanghai! "  The pilot swore an angry oath; the reward of two hundred pounds was evidently on the point of escaping him . A long black funnel, crowned with wreaths of smoke, appeared on the edge of the waters . It was the American . steamer, leaving for Yokohama at the appointed time .', 'Chapter XXII\r\n\r\nIN': ' The Carnatic set sail from Hong Kong at half-past six on the 7th of November, directed her course at full steam towards Japan . Two state-rooms in the rear were, however, unoccupied--those which had been engaged by Phileas Fogg . The next day a passenger with a half-stupefied eye, a staggering gait, and disordered hair, was seen to emerge from the second cabin, and to a seat on deck .  Passepartout was on the Carnatic, but his master was not there . He had been told the time of sailing had been changed, and that he should have informed his master of that fact . He remembered that Mr. Fogg and Aouda had missed the steamer . He helped himself as generously as if Japan were a desert, with nothing to eat .  Frenchman went to Yeddo, a port of call in the Pacific, where all the mail-steamers carrying travellers between North America, China, Japan, and the Oriental islands put in . He had nothing better to do than, taking chance for his guide, to wander aimlessly through the streets of Yokohama .  Passepartout saw begging friars, long-robed pilgrims, and simple people, with their warped and jet-black hair, big heads, long busts, and short stature, like the Chinese, from whom the Chinese widely differ . He observed that the butchers stalls contained neither mutton, goat, nor pork; and, knowing also that it is a sacrilege to kill cattle, preserved solely for farming, he made up his mind that meat was far from plentiful in Yokohama--nor was he mistaken .  Passepartout re-entered the native quarter, where he wandered through the streets, looking on at the dancers and astrologers . The streets at last became quiet, and the patrol, in their splendid costumes, thought they seemed like ambassadors .', 'Chapter XXIII\r\n\r\nIN': ' Passepartout wanted to use the strong, if not melodious., if nature had bestowed upon him . He knew several French and English songs, and resolved to try them upon the Japanese . He would offer himself as a cook or servant, in payment of passage and meals . Once at San Francisco, he would find some means of going on . The difficulty was, how to traverse the four thousand miles of the Pacific which lay between Japan and the New. world .  Frenchman Passepartout wanted to be a cook or servant on an American steamer . He found himself in the Japanese harbour of Paris and asked for a job . He was given the job by the Honourable William Batulcar, a sort of Barnum . The placard said he was giving his last performances before leaving the Empire of the Sun for the U.S.  Passepartout was engaged to act in the celebrated Japanese troupe . He was on his way to San Francisco to join the celebrated troupe of acrobatic acrobats . The Long Noses of the god Tingou was to close the performance with a "great attraction"  The Long Noses form a peculiar company, under the direct patronage of the god Tingou . They were made of bamboo, and were five, six, and even ten feet long, some straight, some curved, some ribboned, and some having imitation warts upon them . Passepartout was chosen to take his place as the base of the Car of Juggernaut .  At half-past six, the very hour of departure, Mr. Fogg and Aouda, accompanied by Passepartout, stepped upon the American steamer .', 'Chapter XXIV\r\n\r\nDURING': ' Phileas Fogg, after paying the stipulated price of his passage to John Busby, and rewarding him with the additional sum of five hundred and fifty pounds, the Carnatic . He learned, to Aouda\'s great delight--and perhaps to his own--that Passepartout, a Frenchman, had really arrived on the Tankadere the day before . The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that very evening, and Fogg sought for his missing servant . He applied in vain to the French and English consuls, and, after a long time,  Phileas Fogg was hoping to reach San Francisco by the 2nd of December, New York by the 11th, and London on the 20th--thus gaining\xa0several hours on the fatal date of the 21st of December . Aouda\'s companion felt herself more and more attached to him by his silent but generous nature .  The rogue told me a lot of stories about the sun, the sun and the moon, and moonshine more likely to keep . He would have liked to know what Fix would say if he were aboard .  The General Grant entered the bay of the Golden Gate, and reached San Francisco . He met Passepartout face-to-face face to face on the deck of the ship . Fix had been Mr. Fogg\'s adversary . Fix coldly said, coldly, "I think him a rascal. "', 'Chapter XXV\r\n\r\nIN': ' Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout set foot upon the American continent, if this name can be given to the floating quay upon which they disembarked . San Francisco was no longer the legendary city of 1849--a city of banditti, assassins, and . assassins, who had flocked hither in crowds in . pursuit of plunder; a city of outlaws, where they gambled with gold-dust, a revolver in one hand and a bowie-knife .  Phileas Fogg, accompanied by Aouda, went to the English consulate to have his passport visaed . He met detective Fix, who asked him if it would not be well, before taking the train, to purchase some dozens of Enfield rifles and Colt\'s revolvers . They soon found themselves in Montgomery Street, where a great crowd of people gathered .  There was an unusual stir in the human mass, and the hands of the crowd were raised in the air . Mr. Fogg and Fix were roughly hustled in their attempts to protect their companion; the former tried to defend himself, but in vain .  A big brawny fellow with a red beard raised his clenched fist to strike Phileas Fogg, whom he would have given a crushing blow, had not . Fix rushed in and received it in his own hand, but was not seriously hurt . The clothing of both Fogg and Fix was in rags, as if they had themselves been actively engaged in the battle between Camerfield and Mandiboy .  Phileas Fogg got into the train, which started off at full speed . "The election of a general-in-chief, no doubt? " asked Mr. Fogg . He replied, "No, sir; of a justice of the peace"', 'Chapter XXVI\r\n\r\nIN': " The journey from New York to San Francisco consumed, formerly, under the most favourable conditions, at least six months . The journey now takes seven days to complete in seven days .  The train left Oakland station at six o'clock. It was already night, the heavens being overcast with clouds which seemed to threaten snow. The train did not proceed rapidly; counting the number of stopsages, it did not run more than twenty miles an hour . The country between San Francisco and Sacramento is not very hilly .  There were few or no bridges or tunnels on the route . The train entered the State of Nevada through the Carson Valley, going always northeasterly . At midday reached Reno, there was a delay of twenty minutes for breakfast .  The last ranks of the herd were now passing over the rails, while the first had already disappeared below the southern horizon . The procession of buffaloes lasted three full hours, and it was night before the track was clear .", 'Chapter XXVII\r\n\r\nIN': ' Elder William Hitch, Mormon missionary, taking advantage of his presence on train No. 48, would deliver a lecture on Mormonism in car No. 117, from eleven to twelve o\'clock . Passepartout knew nothing of Mormonism except the custom of polygamy, which is its foundation .  Elder William Hitch related the history of the Mormons from Biblical times . The Elder\'s story became somewhat wearisome, and his audience grew to twenty passengers . Smith reappeared in Illinois, and in 1839 founded a flourishing colony at Nauvoo, on the Mississippi, numbering twenty-five thousand people . Smith was thrown into prison, and assassinated by a band of men in masks .  The Elder asked Passepart out courageously, in his turn retiring from the car, and leaving the Elder to preach to vacancy . The train reached Ogden at two o\'clock, where it rested for six hours, and Mr. Fogg and his party had time to pay a visit to Salt Lake City .  There were many women, which was easily accounted for by the "peculiar institution" of the Mormons . But it is worth noting that it is mostly the female citizens of Utah who are anxious to marry . These poor creatures seemed to be neither well off nor happy .', 'Chapter XXVIII\r\n\r\nIN': ' The train, on leaving Great Salt Lake at Ogden, passed northward for an additional an hour as far as Weber River, having completed nearly nine hundred miles from San Francisco . From this point it took an easterly direction toward the jagged Wahsatch Mountains .  Chance alone, it was clear, had brought Colonel Proctor on this train; but there he was, and it was necessary, at all hazards, that Phileas Fogg should not perceive his adversary . Aouda seized a moment when Mr Fogg was asleep to tell Fix and Passepartout whom she had seen .  Phileas Fogg and his friends were on a train crossing the Rocky Mountains . The train was stopped before a red signal blocked the way . The game was resumed after a violent whistling was heard in the car .  The train was bound for Medicine Bow, but the bridge at Medicine Bow would not bear the weight of the train . The signal-man said it was in a ruinous condition, several of the iron wires being broken; and it was impossible to risk the passage . The colonel launched a volley of oaths, denouncing the railway company and the conductor; and Passepartout, who was furious, was not willing to make common cause with him . The engineer, a true Yankee, called out, "Gentlemen, perhaps there is a way, after all, to get over  Passengers thought the experiment proposed a little too too provocative American . The engineer told stories about engineers leaping their trains over rivers without bridges, by putting on full steam . The train leaped, so to speak, from one bank to the other, and the engineer could not stop it .', 'Chapter XXIX\r\n\r\nIN': ' The Union Pacific Railroad was inaugurated on the 23rd. October, 1867, by the chief engineer, General Dodge . The train crossed Cheyne Pass, crossing Cheyne . Passes the highest elevation of the journey, eight. and ninety-two feet above the sea .  Colonel Proctor and Phileas Fogg recognised each other at once . Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Fix raised their heads, and beheld Col. Proctor . "You have only to try, son of John Bull," replied the colonel . "I am in a great hurry to get back to Europe," said Fogg to his adversary .  Mr. Fogg begged Fix to be his second at the approaching duel, a request which the detective could not refuse . Colonel Proctor appeared on the next car attended by a Yankee of his own stamp as his second . Colleagues were about to step from the train, but the conductor shouted, "You can\'t get off, gentlemen!"  Colonel Proctor and Mr. Fogg perceived that the train was attacked by a band of Sioux . The Sioux were armed with guns, from which came the reports, to which they responded by revolver-shots . The travellers defended themselves bravely; some of the cars were barricaded .  Frenchman slipped under the cars, holding on to the chains, aiding himself by the brakes and edges of the sashes, creeping from one car to another with marvellous skill, and thus gaining the forward end of the train . The soldiers of the fort, attracted by the shots, hurried up; the Sioux had not expected them, and decamped in a body before the train entirely stopped .', 'Chapter XXX\r\n\r\nIN': ' Three passengers including Passepartout had disappeared from the train . The last Sioux were disappearing in the south, along the banks of Republican River . Phileas Fogg, who had been in the thickest of the fight, thought, "It is my duty" The delay of a single day would make him lose the steamer at New York .  Detective Fogg asked the captain to let him go with him, but the captain said he would not leave him alone . The captain said: "Would you have me leave this poor fellow to perish--him to whom every present present owes his life?    I shall go. " The captain had only to . pick his men, and an old sergeant placed at their head . Fogg pressed the young woman\'s hand, and, having confided to her his precious carpet-bag, went off with the squad .  The train had run several miles, when, the fire became low for want of fuel, the steam had slackened; and it had finally stopped an hour after, some twenty miles beyond Fort Kearney . Neither the engineer nor the stoker was dead, and, after remaining for some time in their swoon, had come to themselves . The engineer could not imagine how the locomotive had become separated from the train; but he did not doubt that the train left behind was in distress . He did not hesitate to continue on to Omaha, for it would be dangerous to return to the  Aouda, full of sad forebodings, her heart stifled by anguish, wandered about on the verge of the plains . She kept coming out of the platform, peering through the snow, as if to pierce the mist which narrowed the horizon around her .  Phileas Fogg and the other two travellers were rescued from the Sioux Indians . They had met and fought the Indians ten miles south of Fort Kearney . The soldiers rushed out of the fortress and saw a little band returning in good order .', 'Chapter XXXI\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg found himself twenty hours behind time . The detective approached Mr. Fogg, and, looking him in the face, said: "Seriously, sir, are you in great haste?"  Mr. Fogg proposed to leave Aouda with Passepartout, the servant taking upon himself to escort her to Europe by a better route and under more favourable conditions . But Aoudas Fogg refused to separate from his master, and Paspartout was delighted with her decision .  Phileas Fogg had but two things to fear-- an accident to the sledge, and a change or calm in the wind . But the breeze, far from lessening its force, blew as if to bend the mast, which, however, the metallic lashings held firmly . Aouda, cosily packed in furs and cloaks, was sheltered from the freezing wind .  Mr. Fogg left the rudder and furled his sails, whilst the sledge went on half a mile further with its sails unspread . The party directed their steps to the Omaha railway station . Omaha is connected with Chicago by the Chicago and Rock-Island Railroad .', 'Chapter XXXII\r\n\r\nIN': " The party crossed the Hudson in the Jersey City ferryboat, and drove in a carriage to the St. Nicholas Hotel, on Broadway . The next day was the 12th of December, and Phileas Fogg's last hope of reaching Liverpool or London was crushed . The China, one of the fastest steamers on the Atlantic, could not cross the Atlantic in time to save the wager .  Phileas Fogg tried to find a way to get to Bordeaux from Liverpool to China . He found himself on board the Henrietta, iron-hulled, wood-built above . The captain was a man of fifty, a sort of sea-wolf, with big eyes, a complexion of copper, red hair and thick neck .  Nicholas, Aouda, Passepartout, and Fix were on board when the Henrietta made ready to weigh anchor . The Bank of England would certainly not come out of this affair well indemnified .", 'Chapter XXXIII\r\n\r\nIN': " Phileas Fogg, Esquire, was in command of the Henrietta instead of Captain Speedy . He had taken passage for Bordeaux, and, during the thirty hours he had been on board, had so shrewdly managed with his banknotes that the sailors and stokers, who were only an occasional crew, went over to him in a body . He formed warm friendships with the sailors, and amazed them with his acrobatic feats .  The robbery of the Henrietta under Fogg's command, was not going to Liverpool at all, but to some part of the world where the robber, turned into a pirate, would quietly put himself in safety . Fogg was a bold and brave mariner, and knew how to maintain headway against the sea .  The Henrietta had not yet been seriously delayed in the voyage to Liverpool . The engineer came on deck to speak with Phileas Fogg, and began to speak earnestly with him . On the 18th, the engineer announced that the coal would give out in the course of the day .  Captain Speedy asked Phileas Fogg to sell his ship, the Henrietta, for fifty thousand dollars . Captain Fogg refused to sell the ship, saying he would be like a madman if he did . Fogg said he would lose twenty-thousand pounds unless he arrived in London by a quarter before nine on December 21st .  The Henrietta entered Queenstown Harbour at one o'clock in the morning, the Irish port at which the trans-Atlantic steamers put off the mails . Phileas Fogg counted on gaining twelve hours in the same way . Instead of arriving at Liverpool the next evening by the Henrietta, he would be there by noon by noon, and therefore have time to reach London before nine in the evening .  Phileas Fogg at last disembarked on the Liverpool quay, at twenty-minute before twelve, 21st December . He was only six hours distant from London . Fix came up, put his hand upon Mr. Fogg's shoulder, and showed his warrant, showing his warrant .", 'Chapter XXXIV\r\n\r\nIN': " Phileas Fogg was arrested as a robber when he set foot on English soil . The journey from Liverpool to London took nine hours and a quarter . Fogg sat motionless, calm, and without apparent anger, on a wooden bench .  Phileas Fogg set out towards London with Aouda and his faithful servant . Fogg's watch was two hours too fast and he could reach London and Reform Club by quarter before 9 p.m. The situation was a terrible one, and might be thus stated: if Fogg was honest he was ruined .  Having made the tour of the world, he was behind-hand five minutes . He had lost the wager! He was behind hand five minutes!", 'Chapter XXXV\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg was left with only a few pounds left of his fortune . He had found in the letter-box a bill from the gas company, and he had found it more than time to put a stop to the expense he had been forced to bear . Passepartout kept a narrow watch upon his master, though he carefully concealed the appearance of so doing .  Phileas Fogg, for the first time since he had lived in Saville Row, did not set out for his club when Westminster clock struck half-past eleven . Passepartout could hold in no longer. He accused himself more bitterly than ever of being the cause of the irretrievable disaster. His heart was full, and his conscience tortured by remorse .  Mr. Fogg sent to know if Aouda would receive him, and in a few moments he found himself alone with her . "Madam," said he, "will you pardon me for bringing you to the country which was so unsafe for you, and--who knows? --for having, perhaps, delayed you and thus contributed to your ruin?"  Mr. Fogg asked him if it was not too late to notify the Reverend Samuel. Samuel. Wilson, of Marylebone parish, that evening . Aouda said, "Yes, by all that is holiest, I love you, and I am entirely yours! "', 'Chapter XXXVI\r\n\r\nIN': " The real bankrobber, a certain James Strand, had been arrested, on the 17th day of December, at Edinburgh . Three days before, Phileas Fogg had been a criminal, who was being desperately followed up by the police; now he was an honourable gentleman, mathematically pursuing his eccentric journey round the world .  Samuel Fallentin bet bet was won on Phileas Fogg's 7:23 train . Fogg was due to arrive at Barings to-morch at 7.23pm, but the train did not arrive until ten minutes after twelve .  Phileas Fogg appeared in the saloon at the sixtieth second of the match . The players rose from their seats but nothing happened until the sixtyth and thirtieth .", 'Chapter XXXVII\r\n\r\nIN': ' Phileas Fogg was sent by his master to engage the services of the Reverend Samuel Wilson in a certain marriage which was to take place the next day . Passepartout went on his errand enchanted, but found him not at home . With his hair in disorder, and without his hat, he ran along the street as never been seen to run before, overturning passers-by, rushing over the street like a waterspout .  Phileas Fogg had won his wager, and had made his journey around the world in eighty days . He divided the one thousand pounds that remained between Passepartout and the unfortunate Fix, against whom he cherished no grudge .'}